There is a sea of difference between Gandhian economics and Nehruvian economics.
Gandhian economics is more than 100 years old and developed in Swaraj india, before
independence. Gandhi was a traditionalist. He had a commoner background and
experienced racial discrimination in South Africa. Gandhi was against industrialisation. He
was against use of machinery itself. He was not in favor of even railways. ( Industrial
revolution started in Europe with invention of locomotives). His development model
emphasized among other things, self-reliance and self-sufficiency, swadeshi, liberation of the
rural poor from all forms of oppression and deprivation and participation of the masses in
nation building. Many would rush to support Gandhi, as he was against labor
replacement by any means and not against industrialisation. Naturally it was thrown
overboard by Nehruvian economics.
Nehru was a Western in his beliefs. Nehru had an elitist background and had no personal experience
of discrimination. Nehru of the modern era and Independent India wanted the country to
be as industrialised as possible in the shortest point of time. Industrialization was the key to
India's quick transformation.But it was based on centralised planning principles modified as
mixed economy with public sector taking the lead and private sector playing a supportive
role in the industrialization.
Nehru invited global economists before finalising the first five year plan in 1956.
Independent india saw acceleration of growth during the first plan period after 200 years
of economic stagnation. Nehruvian economics was based on four pillars. 1. The basic
challenge for a poor country like India is to augment productive capital as much as
possible and absorb modern technology. 2. Domestic capital can be augmented thru
increase in domestic savings rate. Savings grew from 5% to 20%. 3. The government to
take the lead in industrialisation. 4. Deep suspicion on foreign trade.
50 years have passed by for Nehruvian economics to serve its utility. 
