As India was a large country to be governed, the British realised that it was important to have a
cadre of well-trained Indians in all areas including science and technology. Therefore, the British set
up a small number of universities loosely based on the British pattern in the nineteenth century.
Now the question arises: “Which social groups were the first who received and responded to the
introduction of modern science in India?” Of course, not much work has been done on the
transmission of scientific ideas between different cultures. In the first half of the nineteenth century,
both Hindus and Muslims had their own elites. However, paradoxically, it was only the Hindu elites
drawn naturally from the upper castes, principally the Brahmins, the Baidyas and the Kayasths in the
Bengal province who made contact with the British and eagerly sought after modern science, which
took roots in Europe as a legitimate knowledge. Amongst the Bengali Muslims, there was a much
larger socially and economically inferior stratum and a correspondingly smaller aristocracy than
amongst the Hindus.
Modern scientific ideas and techniques came to India in the wake of British conquest, but they faced
three major limitations. First, the scale of implantation and the degree of utilisation was limited to
suit the policies of the rulers. Secondly, the teaching of science was introduced merely to provide
training in various branches rather than creating an appreciation of science as a tool of intellectual
and social transformation. And, thirdly, science was introduced in English. Consequently, instead of
playing the role modern science did in Europe, it became isolated. It must be noted that when the
British introduced Western education, they did not introduce science and technology in the
curriculum. Rather, they focused on literature, law, grammar, etc. Most of the Indian intelligentsia or
the cultural elite felt the need of imparting science education to the Indians for exploring the new
horizons of knowledge about nature and life .In this context, scientific institutions like Hindu College
(1816), Delhi College (1825), the Aligarh Scientific Society (1864), the Bihar Scientific Society (1868),
and the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (1876) figure the most. These institutions
were initiated mostly in the second half of the nineteenth century as a part of the process of not
merely popularisng but also democratising scientific knowledge in India by creating opportunities for
the Indians to pursue science education. 
