Technoscience reproduces and maintains itself by training and educating scientists.
Science has a material culture that is typically composed of a laboratory with special equipment,
measuring devices, and recording devices. Others, observational sciences, such as geology, ecology,
or astronomy, have a different configuration because their sites are not constrained by four walls.
For each field of science the equipment may vary, but the intended purpose of the equipment is to
measure, record, and describe.
Technoscience has symbols (the white lab coat is one) and a unique language that unites scientists
into a community and places them within a-social system. These symbols also carry ideas that are
shared by a particular culture.
For the society at large, a white lab coat symbolizes the purity of science, the intelligence and
devotion of the scientist to truth, and the difference between scientists and tinkerers in garages.
Continuation…
Typical social institutions are the family for reproducing and maintaining membership in the
society.
Education for preparing the young to participate in the society.
Economic systems for organizing the activities of production and consumption
Politics for organizing power and providing mechanisms to establish and sustain stability and
order.
Religion for providing a collective way of knowing about the certainties and uncertainties of life,
death, and existence, and for institutionalizing a moral order.
This picture of institutional life emphasizes the basic requirements for the efficient functioning of a
society.
Social institutions are sets of durable social relations. All institutions are organized around social
roles, rules of conduct, forms of organization, social and material practices, and often specific
languages or discourses. Continuation…
Science, as a social institution, has developed mechanisms, such as peer review, which help to
increase the reliability of knowledge claims. However, peer review can also lead to difficulties for
newcomers or outsiders who want to contribute to science and are prevented by the very process
designed to verify science.
Technologies are material products of human activity, including tools, toys, artifacts and artworks,
“low” and “high” technology, as well as knowledge about how these products work and especially
how to make and use them.
