• Whistle-blowing is the act by an employee of informing the public or higher management
of unethical or illegal behavior by an employer or supervisor. • According to the codes of
ethics of the professional engineering societies, engineers have a duty to protect the health
and safety of the public, so in many cases, an engineer is compelled to blow the whistle on
acts or projects that harm these values. • Engineers also have the professional right to
disclose wrongdoing within their organizations and expect to see appropriate action taken.
Types of whistle-blowing
• Internal whistle-blowing occurs when an employee goes over the head of an immediate
supervisor to report a problem to a higher level of management. Or, all levels of
management are bypassed, and the employee goes directly to the president of the company
or the board of directors. However it is done, the whistle-blowing is kept within the
company or organization. • External whistle-blowing occurs when the employee goes
outside the company and reports wrongdoing to newspapers or law-enforcement
authorities. Either type of whistle-blowing is likely to be perceived as disloyalty. However,
keeping it within the company is often seen as less serious than going outside of the
company.
Continuation…
• Anonymous whistle-blowing occurs when the employee who is blowing the whistle refuses
to divulge his name when making accusations. These accusations might take the form of
anonymous memos to upper management (as in the BART case discussed later) or of
anonymous phone calls to the police or FBI. • Acknowledged whistle-blowing, on the other
hand, occurs when the employee puts his name behind the accusations and is willing to
withstand the scrutiny brought on by his accusations. • Whistle-blowing can be very bad
from a corporation’s point of view because it can lead to distrust, disharmony, and an
inability of employees to work together.
When should whistle-blowing be attempted?
•Need •Proximity •Capability •Last resort
