Web technology refers to the means by which computers communicate with each other using
markup languages and multimedia packages. 
Web 2.0
Web 2.0 is defined that the second generation of the www( World Wide Web) that is focused on the
capability for public to contribute information online using Web-based communities, social media
etc.
Advantages:
Available at anywhere, any time and any place.
User friendly.
Can create vibrant learning communities.
Ease of practice.
Selection of media.
Beginners can actively be concerned in knowledge structure.
Real-time discussion.
Up to date current information
User can communicate around the world with a nominal cost.
Limitations:
Increase level of spamming specially on comments and replay sections
Lack of good filters
Threat of getting wrong information
Too many fake ID’s and spammers
Web 2.0 Tools:
Blog, RSS ,Wiki ,Instant Messaging ,Social Networking ,Social Bookmarking ,Social Media Marketing
,Podcasts ,Web Mashups
Web 3.0
Web 3.0 is defined that the third generation of the www( World Wide Web) also known as semantic
web. The basic idea of web 3.0 is to define structure data and link them in order to more effective
discovery, automation, integration, and reuse across various applications.
Advantages:
Web 3.0 encourages Creativity and Innovation
Web 3.0 promotes Factor of Globalization Phenomena
Enhances Customer Satisfaction
Helps to Organize Collaboration in Social Web
Encourages Factor of Globalization Phenomena 
Improves Data Management
Stimulates Creativity and Innovation
Supports accessibility of mobile Internet
Limitations:
11. Difference between Web 2.0 to Web 3.0
Following are the differences of Web 2.0 to Web 3.0 which are as follows:-
S. No. Web 2.0 Web 3.0
1. The Social Web The Semantic Web
2. Tim O’Reilly Tim Berners Lee
3. Read and write web Read, write and execute web
4. Interaction Immersion
5. Billion of Users Trillion of Users
6. Participation Understanding itself
7. Connect people Connect knowledge
8. The Community Web The Semantic Web
9. Google scholar, Book search Semantic Digital Libraries
Bi-Directional Multi user virtual environment 
